The Bell jar
---------------------------

Reading the autobiography of a beloved poet through 
the distortion of the bell jar is personal, trancendental experience.

Our narrator, Esther, is talented and years ahead of her peers in 
wisdom and cycnicism.

*I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig-tree in the story. From the tip of every branch, like a fat purple fig, a wonderful future beckoned and winked. One fig was a husband and a happy home and children, and another fig was a famous poet and another fig was a brilliant professor, and another fig was Ee Gee, the amazing editor, and another fig was Europe and Africa and South America, and another fig was Constantin and Socrates and Attila and a pack of other lovers with queer names and off-beat professions, and another fig was an Olympic lady crew champion, and beyond and above these figs were many more figs I couldn’t quite make out. I saw myself sitting in the crotch of this fig-tree, starving to death, just because I couldn’t make up my mind which of the figs I would choose. I wanted each and every one of them, but choosing one meant losing all the rest, and, as I sat there, unable to decide, the figs began to wrinkle and go black, and, one by one, they plopped to the ground at my feet. (Plath 73)*

 *so i began to think maybe it was true that when you were married and and had children*
 *it was like being brainwashed, and afterwards you went about numb as a slave,*
 *totalitarian state*  
 
The story takes us through an a journey of unfathomable thought and expression where we travel with Esther through her internship with a fabulous fashion magazine, and we are privy to her maddening thoughts, disbelief and disilusionment at her reality. Her character is a solace and envy. 
The other women at the internship split apart Esther for us, her lust for adventure and escapism and her denial of her present need for acceptance and superiority. Esther's ego often lead to her hateful feelings for others of success and often conjured success in her eyes without her knowing. The truth that even for the enlightened and self aware, there are lies we often whisper to ourselves, and they cover up our soft blind spots like a warm duvet of lightness. 

Esther is at a cross roads but poetry is her one true love and she chooses to wed a life of single solitude and strength and it is in this that we treasure the bravery and terror of a woman that does not need a man for validation of her virtues and gifts. 

As we watch and absorb our protagnist's thoughts, her unbelievable loneliness is never confronted. She has no human close to her mind, no one that she will allow into her private cave of thought and understanding, it's almost as if no one is worthy to enter the dark passage lined with haughty cadavers.

*"I felt very still and empty, like how the eye of a tornado must feel"*

Her imagery is breathtaking.
A coming of age novel is difficult to write, it's difficult to entirely consume readers into the feelings of characters and make it shocking enough to impart a permanent imprint on you.
And, the bell jar is often compared to the catcher in the rye, they both take place deeply in the eye of magnified depression. Both Houlden and Esther suffer from depression and are torn
Between what the world wants of them, and what they need for themselves. They do not yet understand what that means, and continue to fall prey to the desires of others. 
Doreen is Esthers escape from making decisions for herself and she betrays her intuition again and follows Doreen, our gorgeous, seductive prince of the world into dangerous, demeaning situations. 
She fails at the internship and her shame is like a black veil of conscious depression that falls over her, this failure followed by the weight of the rejection for the writing program that she had focussed on, that her overachieving ego could never fathom not achieving. Overwhelmed by foreign emotions , Esther is left lifeless. 

She cannot choose a man worthy of her intellect nor is she capable of the selection as her fatherless stance leaves her without a point of referrence. A deeply methodical and thinking indivdual, Esther eats her emotions and her thoughts are never flooded with the depression she must feel. Instead we are privy to the wonderous, deathly imagery that permeates every facet of the book. 
Sylvia plath has carefully prepared us for the impending suicide by leading us on with the image of corpses and cadavers that are always on Esther's mind. She is proccupied with death.


*"Doctor Gordon's features were so perfect he was almost pretty.* 
*I hated him the minute I walked through the door."*

Soon our suffering heroine cannot read, and her friend, the pen, has disowned her. She attempts to learn short-hand from her mother and her failure grows further and her self disillusionment
is greater realised. She is mortal, and nothing. Without writing what is the point of her choice to follow poetry. 

Over a series of events, Esther plans her suicide to escape from the shock therapy that Dr. Doctor gordan forces upon her.
Her plans feel like fantasies to the reader, she is almost romantic about her suicide. She would like the mournful, gothic image of her carcass floating in a bath filled with water mixing with a dark, red fluid, and both her wrists slit, a physical waste in perfect symmetry. This plan fails. She tries to hang herself with a silk bathrobe belt and she tries to drown herself in the ocean, drowning must be the most merciful, she thinks. 

Esther almost fools us into thinking that she might be looking for reasons to not do it, until she goes through it... methodically, with every detail planned out. She does not wish to be found. 
But our protagnist, is a failure, and she fails at dying as well and is propelled into the medical system where she is watched and overseen by staff. 

She loathes all, despite the men in her life inflicting pain on her, She hates the women that save her: her mother, her sponsor. She hates them because she "knows" that they want something from her. Esther's redemption begins in a new hospital, with shock therapy that works and feels like a dose of bliss. There is no conclusion for the mental ill, there is only reform. And her imaginary characters feed her rebirthed ego. 




