
Conversation with shashi

When he asks what i have been doing?

It's actually been an incredible period of reflection and introspection.
I think I'm living in a way that is more pleasing to me now than previously 
going through the motions and trying to please everyone and succumb to what 
everyone needs and wants from you.

I'm spending more time with my masters and dedicating different days to languages.
German, I'm reading so much. working on a yoda article.

What is your masters based on?
It is a multi-agent approach to self-organising maps and it's application
to reducing the curse of dimensionality.

Everything needed to change in the beginning and it's a testament to how pliable humans
truly are.

Who is your best friend?
do  you have a 15min elevator pitch?
what did you want to be when you were a kid?

- what do you do first day in the morning?
- what is the best piece of advice you would give to a young professional to succed?
- how do you manage your emails?
- which book had the biggest impact on your life and helped you to get where you are?

Concentrate in creating a relaxed atmosphere, with low pressure questions aimed at genuinely understanding more of this person,
what.passions he-she has, what drives him-her, etc. Let them speak (Dale Carnegie says that the favourite subject matter of people 
conversations is themselves) a lot! Observe them, see I'm detail how they move their hands, which facial expression they have, listen with deep and total empathy and commitment.

This will be the most amazing experience you may have, hold on to it.

What did you learn from shashi
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The take aways from the conversation with Shashi that blew my mind, is that 
he is so humble as to love wherever he is. 

He does not talk about himself at all, does not think highly of himself and sounds as if
he had to learn how to accept compliments. He does his best to contribute to the company
and keep everyone happy.

He does not watch tv. 

